BD-4888: Bot filtering GA (#9983)
braze-inc/braze-docs: _docs/_user_guide/administrative/app_settings/email_settings/bot_filtering.md

page_order: 1
toc_headers: h2
alias: "/bot_filtering/"
description: "This article provides an overview of bot filtering for email."
---

# Bot filtering for emails

> Set up bot filtering in your [Email Preferences]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/administrative/app_settings/email_settings) to exclude all suspected machine or bot clicks. A "bot click" in email refers to a click on hyperlinks within an email that's generated by an automated program. By filtering these bot clicks, you can intentionally trigger and deliver messages to recipients who are engaged.

{% alert important %}
Starting July 9, 2025, all new workspaces created will have the bot filtering setting turned on for more accurate click reporting in Braze.
{% endalert %}

## About bot clicks

Braze has a proprietary detection system that employs multiple inputs to identify suspected bot clicks, also referred to as non-human interactions (NHI). Bot clicks can distort your email engagement metrics by artificially inflating click rates. This approach allows us to differentiate between genuine human interactions and suspected bot activity to maintain the integrity of click engagement metrics and insights.

> ### Metrics affected by bot clicks

Author: ```suggestion
## Metrics affected by bot clicks
```

The following Braze metrics can be affected by bot clicks:

- Total Click Rate
- Unique Click Rate
- Click-to-Open Rate
- Conversion Rate (if "Clicks campaign" is selected as the conversion event)
- Heatmap
- Certain segment filters

> [Braze Intelligence features]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/brazeai/intelligence) leveraging click data on top of our proprietary models may be impacted. Turning on the setting has the potential to disrupt our models temporarily, which may result in a decrease in the metric or input due to this exclusion of suspected bot clicks:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Braze Intelligence features]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/brazeai/intelligence) that leverage click data on top of our detection systems may be impacted. Turning on the setting has the potential to disrupt our detection systems temporarily, which may result in a decrease in the metric or input due to this exclusion of suspected bot clicks:
```
I'm guessing the models are referring to the detection system because "proprietary" is mentioned 🤔 But I'm not positive

- Intelligent Selection
- Intelligent Channel
- Intelligent Timing
- Experiment Step
    - Winning Path
    - Personalized Path
- Campaign
    - Winning Variant
    - Personalized Variant
- Estimated real open rate

Unsubscribes from suspected bot clicks will not be affected. Braze will continue to process all unsubscribe requests as usual. If you would like Braze to block these unsubscribes, submit [product feedback]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/administrative/access_braze/portal).

> ## Segmentation filters affected by bot filtering

Reviewer: Should this be H3, similar to "Metrics affected by bot clicks"? Or should "Metrics affected by bot clicks" be H2?
